 
TURN CDFQUEST INTO AN OPEN WORLD ADVENTURE GAME LIKE MINECRAFT

it seems open ended, you can mine trees to get wood, do traditional minecraft things, and as you explore you can find dungeons, and thats where the original ideas for cdfquest come in, the combat etc. this eliminates the need for story or dialoug, seems easier to do, and probably more interesting for player to use.


keep gold system, could trade with npcs later on

rework tile system and grid system

tile system, add a binary properties array that would have diferent properties, such as has colision, is container, things like that

grid system, add seperate grids for ground tiles, object tiles, roof tiles. eliminate background tiles

keep original idea for combat system maybe, possibly only in dungeons, in overworld have regular minecraft style combat

redraw all tiles, or get someone to draw them

draw inspiration from minecraft and terraria, while maintaining uniqueness

add resource gathering system and survival building system, place tiles in facing tile rather than contacted tile. also having a breaking system (requiring specific tool???) that keeps how broken a tile is, like terraria rather than minecraft. when breaking ground tiles, you are just presented with stone as a background layer, this is not stone you can break, and anytime the player attemps to break this stone a dialoug will come up saying "i cant break this, i need to find a cave if i want to mine."

containers will have to have a container id in the tile properties data, that a container sub can load from file with that container name and what it has in it

rework how tiles are identified, possibly each tile has its own file/folder with properties

add items, crafting, etc.

keep original idea of health containers breaking upon full depletion, requiring new health containers, unsure of how to replenish health yet

upon death, all inventory contents are left on body, player must travel to body to retrieve, does not despawn

world has global spawn point, possibly also exit point, for when you save and quit your position is saved

any time you change map, your cords are updated to reletive positioning, ie when screen scrolling map changes, say if you go up, your x cord is the same but your y cord gets wrapped to the bottom, when exiting a dungeon or cave, the exit has a specific cord that it puts you at in the overworld

possibly multiplayer??

combat having spells rather than strictly melee, ooh! magic combat is only possible in dungeon settings, lore reason is the dungeons have a strange magical essence that causes that, meaning that combat conducted on the overworld is realtime, combat in dungeons is turn bassed. or all combat realtime or all combat turn based. not sure how this will go yet, but i want to impliment both and see how people like it

controller support cause why not?

lighting system, possible with just pretty much copying how minecraft does it, but for graphics wise, have a shade texture file and just overlay it at night

"roof" tiles are displayed over character and are non coliding, allowing basically for torches and such to count as roof tiles so they are displayed over the character, and possibly for secret areas? player houses should not contain roof tiles, so you can actually see inside of the house

procedurally generated map??

nether?????

pre built structures?

any development tools i make have to be included in game. that way map makers can use them as well, it wouldnt be fair to not include them

mobs need to exist, they might get ai too, scary thought to program, possibly just a sub that checks each mob entity id, look at souroundings and move , or do pathfinding, and a tick count down, when the timer is up, pick a random spot within say 10 tiles, and walk there, then start the timer again

possible slight dialog from the character, and achievement points? such as when you place a bed the player says "there, now i have a place to sleep at night"

you cannot just randomly go mining "straight down" for example, you have to find a cave first, caves work similarly to pokemon and stardew valley, where you can only find resources on certain levels and you have to go deeper in the cave?

BBEG? or final bosses?

only reason i am a tad hesitent to include locked in turn based combat in overworld, is i dont want the players house to become a battlefield

actually yeah, turnbased combat is going in

hub world still existing, but only having hub game mode, which basically just limits character and camera movement so i can still use what ive got, but make it a title screen and loading things

lol

possibly add water? no swiming. boats maybe?
